---
title: "How we create a ChatGPT Prompt to develop a BFI Narrative"
excerpt:
last_modified_at: 2023-06-12
tags: 
  - Jekyll
---

BFI leverages ChatGPT to generate a written narrative about a future scenario we want to explore through creative envisioning. In our workshops, we ask participants to answer the following questions Q1-Q6. They will then use their answers mad-lib style to create a ChatGPT prompt like this:

Write me a story set in [a sleepy beach town on the Oregon Coast] [about what happens as all salmon populations die off completely]. As this happens, humans [in coastal communities in Oregon relocate to the American Midwest in search for the only affordable housing market left in the country]. They do this because [climate-change induced sea level rises make life on the coast near impossible as they knew it before]. Write this story in the perspective of [an oil-company CEO on his deathbed reflecting on his life]. 


1. Where does the story begin? [a sleepy beach town on the Oregon Coast]

2. Briefly describe the scientific inflection point this scenario is built around [climate-change induced sea level rises]

3. Who (people) does this scientific inflection point affect? [climate-change induced sea level rises make life on the coast near impossible as they knew it before]

4. How does this scientific inflection point affect nature?  [all salmon populations die off completely] 

5. What is the human inflection point? What is the human-driven crux that changes things? (ecological innovation, technological advancement, societal change, human behavior) [relocate to the American Midwest in search for the only affordable housing market left in the country]

6. Who is telling this story? Pick someone who would add an interesting perspective on this situation. [an oil-company CEO on his deathbed reflecting on his life]
